hi everyone today we're going to learn
how and why to save images for web in
adobe photoshop now i'm using adobe
photoshop cs3 but this will work on any
recent version of photoshop and it will
work on a Windows or Mac computer now
the reason that you want to save images
for web instead of just going to file
save and photoshop if you're going to
upload them to the Internet is simply
file size and the smaller the file size
the quicker the web page will load of
course so it's a big concern especially
when you're going to be making a page
with many images on them now we have two
images here open we've got the duck
photo that comes with Photoshop and
we've also got a simple logo here with
only a few colors and now we're going to
treat these two types of images
differently the photos we would like to
save as jpeg files and the very simple
logos and line drawings things with only
a few colors we'd want to save as PNG
files now i'm going to do this duck
first this is of course a photo and so
i'm simply going to go to file save for
web and devices now we see here that you
can choose a preset now i'm going to
choose JPEG hi the image still looks
good the file size is greatly reduced
and I'll show you by how much at the end
here I'll choose JPEG hi if I see a part
of the image that's maybe a little bit
blurry or grainy then I can change the
quality here all the way from 0 to 100
but this looks pretty good to me so I'm
just going to click Save and I will call
this ducky web and I'm going to close
that and now we're looking at the logo
here and since this only has a few
colors and is relatively simple we're
going to want to save it in the PNG file
format and again we're going to go to
file
save for web and devices and you can see
here in preset I'm going to choose PNG 8
now this is the smallest way to save it
as a PNG file you may want to choose PNG
24 if the the PNG eight books looks a
little simplified because you see here
it limits the amount of colors that can
be used and the PNG 24 does not so the
eights going to result in a lot smaller
file so in most cases this is going to
be what you want to do but if it's a
limiting the file too much try the PNG
24 and see how that looks but obviously
this looks just fine to me so I'm going
to click the Save button and i will save
this as logo away now i'll close this
and i want to see how drastic the file
size differences between saving normally
and saving for web now this is the
original ducky picture let's see how big
it is 248 kilobytes without saving it
for web as a JPEG and after we save it
for web it's been reduced to 36
kilobytes as you can see a huge
difference and a much faster page load
as a result here's the logo save it as a
ping without saving for web 100
kilobytes and after we've saved it for
web 12 kilobytes so you can see the
difference is Jurassic and very helpful
in keeping your page loads down so
that's how and wide to save images for
web an adobe photoshop